# Flotilla Friday, 2021-10-08

- notes for last week, 2021-10-01: https://github.com/Flotilla-Tools-for-Connectors/Flotilla-Wiki/blob/main/Meetings/Flotilla%20Friday%2C%202021-10-01.md
- hackmd for next week, 2021-10-15: https://hackmd.io/@peterkaminski/Sy5cYxR4t/edit

Sections below:

- What Flotilla Is Thinking About
- Ideas For Topics
- Collaborative Knowledge
- Flotilla Friday, 2021-10-01 video recording and notes
- Zoom Chat
- 2021-10-08 MX notes so far

## What Flotilla Is Thinking About

- we need a Flotilla website
    - Pete, Michael
- we need a static site for the Flotilla Wiki
    - Pete
- we like interoperability! (what does that mean?)
- we want to try syndicating data more
    - Person profile between Trove, Factr, Massive Wiki
- Project Clambake (what's that?)
- we should talk more about what Flotilla is and isn't

## Ideas For Topics

- Hyperknowledge meetings, Tuesdays 10am PT
- Collaborative knowledge / collective knowledge
- Vincent collaborative event curation updates
- Wendy McLean updates on my project of weaving a knowledge network
- Mark - are ads ok?
- suggestion about collaborative knowledge vs meeting notes.
    - agree that we should have some sort of overall notes/current state of the system
- 2 most useful repo items for me: video recording posted, notes with take-away or next steps to help guide our next meeting
-

## Collaborative Knowledge

- meeting notes
- need a current state of the system
- different kinds of artifacts
- cost of getting transcription accurate enough for sensemaking
- Flows vs stocks
- collaborative wiki-ing
    - e.g., 1 shared computer for Obsidian and HackMD, using screen sharing (VNC), and HackMD for additional people who are single-tracking through VNC
- https://demo.idealoom.org


## Flotilla Friday, 2021-10-01 video recording and notes:

- [Flotilla Friday, 2021-10-01](https://youtu.be/L9nsUfm0Rbk) (YouTube)
- [Flotilla Friday, 2021-10-01](https://github.com/Flotilla-Tools-for-Connectors/Flotilla-Wiki/blob/main/Meetings/Flotilla%20Friday%2C%202021-10-01.md) (markdown on github)

## Zoom Chat

```
09:00:30 From Peter Kaminski to Everyone:
	https://hackmd.io/@peterkaminski/H1DZo1R4K/edit
09:02:37 From Peter Kaminski to Everyone:
	https://hackmd.io/@peterkaminski/H1DZo1R4K/edit
09:03:13 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	i saw the chat rant and i enjoyed it :D
09:03:49 From Peter Kaminski to Everyone:
	:D
09:04:34 From Peter Kaminski to Everyone:
	"colonizers"
09:06:11 From Mark Carranza to Everyone:
	Vernor Vinge
09:08:59 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	one person doing the work - is that because everyone has their own tool?
09:09:15 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	i think the real question is: what will make others use the tools we use?
09:09:17 From Marc-Antoine Parent to Everyone:
	Vincent probably....
09:09:27 From Wendy McLean, NY to Everyone:
	+1 Vincent
09:10:21 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	I’d like to share some collaborative event curation updates :D
09:11:16 From Wendy McLean, NY to Everyone:
	I’d like to share updates on my project of weaving a knowledge network
09:11:26 From Mark Carranza to Everyone:
	I have a use of Trove question, - friends are starting a company consulting to non-profit sustainable organizations
09:11:44 From Mark Carranza to Everyone:
	Ar ads for “commercial service”
09:11:56 From Mark Carranza to Everyone:
	Are ads — ok?
09:13:36 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	Mark - great question…. i have an interesting answer for that
09:14:31 From BentleyDavis.com to Everyone:
	I have a suggestion about collaborative knowledge vs meeting notes.
09:14:51 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	tuesday 10am PST - what is the meeting??
09:14:54 From Wendy McLean, NY to Everyone:
	2 most useful repo items for me: video recording posted, notes with take-away or next steps to help guide our next meeting
09:15:29 From Jack Park to Everyone:
	@Wendy +1 on knowledge weaving
09:16:00 From Peter Kaminski to Everyone:
	can somebody grab the topic suggestions here and put them on hackmd
09:22:43 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	I agree that we should use the end of the meeting to catalog/record/organize….
09:23:13 From Jack Park to Everyone:
	Athens claims they are about to announce a collaborative version - which would give you the power of Roam in an online platform for meetings
09:24:26 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	added the topics into the notes :D
09:24:37 From Peter Kaminski to Everyone:
	thanks vincent!
09:24:44 From Jack Park to Everyone:
	Athens and Obsidian are in pretty much the same space, though Athens is OSS. Obsidian is much more refined.
09:26:36 From Jack Park to Everyone:
	Flow and curation!! +1 @Wendy
09:27:03 From Mark Carranza to Everyone:
	“Duty paralyzes spontaneity”
09:28:51 From Marc-Antoine Parent to Everyone:
	athens is only partly OSS, iirc
09:29:32 From Wendy McLean, NY to Everyone:
	Yes Pete!  I’m saying it’s a dance.  Both are important
09:29:57 From Wendy McLean, NY to Everyone:
	Slowing down to sense make and allowing the flow of conversation to happen as needed
09:30:30 From Marc-Antoine Parent to Everyone:
	the other option is to have rhythmic breaks to alternate between fast and slow. Of course that also takes discipline.
09:30:45 From Mark Carranza to Everyone:
	VNC?
09:31:12 From Marc-Antoine Parent to Everyone:
	screen sharing solution
09:31:19 From BentleyDavis.com to Everyone:
	VNC: Virtual Network Computer. Allows you to control someone elses pc.
09:31:36 From Marc-Antoine Parent to Everyone:
	yes screen sharing and control
09:31:49 From Jack Park to Everyone:
	https://www.realvnc.com/en/
09:32:45 From Jack Park to Everyone:
	https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_Network_Computing
09:34:18 From Jack Park to Everyone:
	https://tigervnc.org/
09:34:25 From Mark Carranza to Everyone:
	Changing human behavior
09:34:35 From Mark Carranza to Everyone:
	— our own
09:38:08 From Mark Carranza to Everyone:
	Is hard but can be fun
09:38:20 From Michael Grossman (he/him) Factr.com to Everyone:
	A possible experiment: Say we chop up the video of this meeting, roughly per speaker (problematic I know, due to crosstalk and interaction) and tag it. With tags (some of which Mark is generating), even if not that this group of granular segments can be searched —better and better—by a.) speaker, b.) subject(s) c.) time d.) links mentioned, e.) whatever else. Then comments can be made on those individual segments, so discussion can be expanded upon, one-off quotes can be quoted by those for whom they are notable, speakers can elaborate or clarify (or recant!) links can be added, etc.
09:39:06 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	question: what do we want to see as outputs? what do others want to see?
09:39:28 From Peter Kaminski to Everyone:
	i'm currently using TightVNC on the windows server, and either the built-in Mac viewer (for ease of getting started) or the RealVNC viewer.
09:39:53 From Wendy McLean, NY to Peter Kaminski(Direct Message):
	Do you mind stopping your share?  I’d love to see people better.
09:40:09 From Peter Kaminski to Wendy McLean, NY(Direct Message):
	np, thank you for asking :-)
09:40:46 From Wendy McLean, NY to Everyone:
	+1 Vincent
09:42:23 From Mark Carranza to Everyone:
	The way archive.org does TV news:
09:42:30 From Mark Carranza to Everyone:
	https://archive.org/details/BBCNEWS_20181020_213000_The_Papers/start/588/end/648?q=bentley+davis
09:43:11 From Peter Kaminski to Everyone:
	Thanks @Michael.  In my mind, the thing to do is to pause every 5-10 minutes, and then have one or several people mindmap (maybe visually, or maybe in a wiki) what was just discussed, in a way that everyone can see the map.
09:43:12 From Mark Carranza to Everyone:
	… by clip + transcript
09:43:18 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	bring your kid to flotilla day next week?
09:43:50 From Peter Kaminski to Everyone:
	possible output: a glossary
09:44:11 From Mark Carranza to Everyone:
	It’s experimental, and we are developing a new context — as shared — and it will take time
09:44:14 From Peter Kaminski to Everyone:
	the output i'd want is a group memory and group thinking/conversation space, in a wiki
09:45:01 From Mark Carranza to Everyone:
	Any new medium needs time to be assimilated '
09:45:09 From Wendy McLean, NY to Everyone:
	+1 Vincent
09:48:18 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	https://www.catalist.network/group/flotilla?tab=Opportunities
10:01:47 From BentleyDavis.com to Everyone:
	Pete, can you create a hack MD for the next meeting so we can prep/agenda for next meeting?
10:03:36 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	my personal pain points and things id want for an output of a group memory: i want to highlight a piece of a youtube video and save it for later. i want to add quick notes. i want to “do later” on a link someone shared….. i want to be able to bring together multiple peoples notes in different formats so i can see them without asking them a year later. i want to be able to easily find anything related to a past event on any device in less than 5 steps.
10:05:09 From Peter Kaminski to Everyone:
	hackmd for next week, 2021-10-08: https://hackmd.io/@peterkaminski/Sy5cYxR4t/edit
10:06:50 From Peter Kaminski to Everyone:
	hackmd for next week, 2021-10-15: https://hackmd.io/@peterkaminski/Sy5cYxR4t/edit
10:08:11 From Jack Park to Everyone:
	http://beyondconnectingthedots.com/
10:08:45 From Wendy McLean, NY to Everyone:
	Thanks Jack!
10:10:05 From Michael Grossman (he/him) Factr.com to Everyone:
	+1 to Vincents outputs: Wiki(s) of our current state of play, both overall, and on sub issues. The wiki(s) have links (ala Wikipedia footnotes) to: Hack MDs from past meetings. Video from past meetings. Links mentioned in past meetings. Agendas for coming meeting(s)
10:12:41 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	how to get the maximum output with the last amount of work
10:12:47 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	includes collective work***
10:16:03 From Jack Park to Everyone:
	https://vimeo.com/115154289
10:16:25 From Marc-Antoine Parent to Everyone:
	BTW Vincent do use year-month-day
10:16:59 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	YYYY-MM-DD
10:18:32 From Peter Kaminski to Everyone:
	"mutable artifact"
10:18:39 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	i’ll update the date format moving forward, thanks Marc-Antoine :D
10:20:33 From Jack Park to Everyone:
	Have to go. Great conversation
10:26:14 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	https://www.catalist.network/group/flotilla?tab=Links
10:27:34 From Peter Kaminski to Everyone:
	btw, watch Memex and their upcoming Memex.social: https://getmemex.com/ https://community.worldbrain.io/
10:31:05 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	tags have to be manually added? or can it be autoamted?
10:31:31 From Peter Kaminski to Everyone:
	manual curation (and you could add automated, too, but manual would be the big value add)
10:33:21 From BentleyDavis.com to Everyone:
	I've got to head out. Thanks!
10:34:13 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	i feel like its filing the mail
10:34:39 From Peter Kaminski to Everyone:
	yes!
10:43:31 From Vincent Arena to Everyone:
	https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D4KrCdm9vH8&t=42
```

## 2021-10-08 MX notes so far 
```
  102 call: Flotilla Friday: Friday, October 8, 2021

 3318 9:03 am
   85 10/8/21
    7 Flotilla Friday
    3 Cognitive Edge
    3 text harvesting tools
    3 technomessianism
   29 Vernor Vinge
    2 asymptotes
    3 inside the event horizon of the singularity
    3 Irrigation dooms us all!
    3 do we have an agenda for today
    3 do we have an agenda for today?
   10 harvesting
    3 everybody else not participating
    3 board president
    3 company: Cognitive Edge
    3 initial material
    3 Tuesday, 10:00 am
    5 The Canonical Debate Lab
    3 collaborative wiki
    3 the collaborative wiki
    3 the history of the wiki changes
    3 a document that we're constructing together
   11 meeting notes
    3 when you're having a meeting
    3 the OGM meetings
    3 AWS machine transcribed
    4 do sense-making
    3 I think it's really the wrong way to do it
    3 a decent transcription
    3 machine transcription
    3 human corrected
    3 all you have is a transcript
    3 the meeting will wander all over the place
    4 to make sense out of that
    3 by the time you've ended the meeting
    3 participatory meetings where you're creating artifacts
    3 the sin that I'm ranting against
    3 the best thing that I know how to do
    3 it's difficult to get used to how that works
    3 memory over time
    6 idealoom
    4 nuggets of information
    3 two information spaces
    3 there's two activities
    3 structural work
    3 things that you see with a bit of distance
    3 to curate the knowledge as we go along
    3 doing it during the meeting
    3 when it's good to slow it down
    3 to let the conversation flow
    3 we lose something by slowing it down
    3 I was stuck on the shared screen
    3 their own stuff
    6 a Google doc
    6 at least three
    3 to curate things on the Google doc
    3 direct replies
    3 I've got some direct replies to that
    3 a conversation wants to run at its own pace
    3 collectively intelligencing
    3 a personal buffer
    3 they need to be able to take notes for themselves
    4 VNC
    6 another window
    4 screen sharing
    3 screen sharing solution
    3 a one second lag
    3 VNC: Virtual Network Computer
    3 doing this cognitive overhead thing
    3 once we got good
    3 a better awareness
    3 there's a lot of cognitive overhead
    3 to back up a little bit
   49 Alan Kay
    3 the technologists have failed us
    3 it's not a bicycle for the mind
    3 20 universals
    8 the universals
    3 leveling up technologies
    3 our reading and writing and drawing technology
    3 it's just doing it
    3 chop up the video
    3 what do we want to see as outputs?
    6 video segments
   47 Vincent Arena
   21 Wendy McLean
   16 Marc-Antoine Parent
   13 Bentley Davis
    3 our own self-interest
    3 individual segments
    3 a searchable record
    3 somebody who is not a software engineer
    3 how I've been thinking about this
    3 if people are looking for a product
    3 the opportunities data type
    3 I'm offering a service
    3 I'm looking for a service
    4 group memory
    3 not specific enough to be useful
    3 an interop space
    3 the tools that we make together
   37 Jack Park
```
